Time Management refers to making the best possible use of available time.

Managing time well enables an individual to do the right thing at the right time.

Time Management plays a pivotal role in one’s personal as well as professional life.

Let us go through some benefits of Time Management:

Time Management makes an individual punctual and disciplined. One learns to work when it is actually required as a result of effective time management.
To make the judicious use of time, individuals should prepare a “TASK PLAN“ or a “TO DO“ List at the start of the day to jot down activities which need
to be done in a particular day as per their importance and urgency against the specific time slots assigned to each activity. A Task Plan gives individuals
a sense of direction at the workplace. An individual knows how his day looks like and eventually works accordingly leading to an increased output.
One becomes more organized as a result of effective Time Management. Keeping the things at their proper places minimizes the time which goes on unnecessary
searching of documents, important files, folders, stationery items and so on. For better time management, individuals keep their workstations, study zones,
cubicles, meeting areas clean and organized. People learn to manage things well as a result of Time Management.
Effective Time Management boosts an individual’s morale and makes him confident. As a result of Time Management, individuals accomplish tasks within the stipulated
time frame, making them popular in their organization as well as amongst their peers. People who understand the value of time are the ones who manage to stand apart
from the crowd. Individuals who finish off work on time are looked up to by others and are always the centre of attention everywhere.
Individuals who stick to a time plan are the ones who realize their goals and objectives within the shortest possible time span. Managing time effectively helps employees
to meet targets way ahead of deadlines and finish off task just when it is required.
Effective Time Management helps an employee to reach the pinnacle of success quickly and stay firm at the top for a longer duration. An employee who works just for the sake 
of working fails to create an impression and is never taken seriously at work. Effective time management plays a pivotal role in increasing an individual’s productivity.
Output increases substantially when people manage their time well.
Better Time Management helps in better planning and eventually better forecasting. Individuals learn to plan things well and know where exactly they stand five years from now.
Research says that individuals who accomplish tasks on time are less prone to stress and anxiety. Remember there is no point in wasting time and cribbing later.
Finish off pending work on time and then you would have ample time for your friends, relatives and family members.
Time Management enables an individual to prioritize tasks and activities at workplace. It is foolish to stay overburdened. Do not accept anything and everything that comes your way.
Time Management helps an individual to adopt a planned approach in life.